Hey man,

I found an absolutely fantastic dataset that I think you'll be interested in. It's about the crimes in Chicago from 2001 to present day

https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/crimes-2001-to-present-398a4
also, there's more detail about the dataset over here
https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2001-to-present/ijzp-q8t2/data

I did some quick preliminary pre-processing steps (we can change this later), as it is and removed NaN values aswell and that reduced how dataset from  6,288,458 to 5,604,960 which is wayyyy more than enough :D
What's awesome is that there are SOOO many questions we can answer seeing as we have the location of the crime per latitude and longitude (draw maps to highlight thing different crimes). We know the types of crimes and their neighbourhoods 
and where they were committed i.e alleyways and stuff

These are the features I think will be important, let me know if you want to add anything Else
IUCR already provides a mapping to the primary type and description (removed primary type and description)
latitude and longitude contains the geolocation data of crime (removed block, location, x,y coordinates as they say the same thing) 
we don't need ID/Case number as we are not tracking any individuals
The data is initially sorted according to when it was last updated on the site, which we don't care about. What we need is when the crime was actually committed (removed updated on) and sorted by the date that it was committed
Beat and FBI code, Ward I think just make our job complicated and more stuff to explain on a short project and I didn't think they were essential, but if you like, we can include these again.

To sum up the final columns were ['Date','IUCR','Location Description','Arrest','Domestic', 'District','Ward','Community Area','Latitude','Longitude']


-Total number of crimes per year
x axis - years
y - axis crime

-Total number of domestic & non-domestic crimes per year
x axis - years
y - axis crime


-Total number of crimes per neighbourhoods per year
x axis - years
y - axis crime


Homicides per neighbourhoods

#police presence and #rate of crime
#police presence and arrest - discriminatory police, probable cause

software available for free but we ask that investment made in hotspot areas


neighbourhoods
crim
Predicting crime in Chicago

predict where crime will take place via hotspot pocling
2001 - 2013 train, 
test model - 2014- 2017

Criminologists - Anthony Braga and David Weisburd  - Hotspot  policiting

Paper
Policing 
Problem 
Places: 
Crime 
Hot 
Spots 
and 
Effective 
Prevention 

Idea - crime is not spread evenly throughout geographic space but rather concentrated in specific areas
(clusters of crime ) we know bars, clubs, pulic tranport hubs have high propensities for crime occurencs.

page 18



% note in report, not dealing with arrest rate or crime rate as they are population dependent

B. This could be because increase the number of police cars act as deterrent to criminals as there is a constant law enforcement presence; therefore, the propensity for crime will decrease.

C. This could be because the reduced the number of police cars empowers bold criminals crimes as they are less likely to be caught

D. This is plausible if reducing the presence of law enforcement officials is complemented by community investment initiatives such as that of the non-profit Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC)



presence if the decreaseInvestments in local community...

means that there especially in low-income neighbourhood hotspots... this could be because
.. D

We believe that the most logical situation is x and aim to show this quantitiatively in this report.


 and check the distribution of incidents per day, week and month to see if there is a normal distribution.

This is emphasised by the fact that there has been a recent trend towards "hot spot police". which means...


